This is about Kubernetes

Main site is https://kubernetes.io/

Documentation is at https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/

Getting started info is at https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/

And for them, instructions for installing Minikube are at https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/ 

Which redirects to https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/ 

Which first requires https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-linux

Instructions are as follow

curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.15.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
chmod +x kubectl
sudo mv kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl

I would add the following for consistency, since I would not expect binaries from various users in /usr/local/bin
chown root:root /usr/local/bin/kubectl

The version command must be modified as such when minikube is not running yet. The --short option is because I'm a human.
kubectl version --client --short

It says v1.15.0

Minikube installation is similar

curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/latest/minikube-linux-amd64 
chmod +x minikube
sudo chown root:root minikube
sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/minikube

To check if there are any updates for minikube
minikube update-check

It's interesting to add minikube to bash completion
minikube completion bash >minikube
sudo chown root:root minikube
sudo mv minikube /etc/bash_completion.d/minikube
source /etc/bash_completion.d/minikube

Minikube addons are initially as follows
minikube addons list

- addon-manager: enabled
- dashboard: disabled
- default-storageclass: enabled
- efk: disabled
- freshpod: disabled
- gvisor: disabled
- heapster: disabled
- ingress: disabled
- logviewer: disabled
- metrics-server: disabled
- nvidia-driver-installer: disabled
- nvidia-gpu-device-plugin: disabled
- registry: disabled
- registry-creds: disabled
- storage-provisioner: enabled
- storage-provisioner-gluster: disabled

Only addon-manager, default-storageclass and storage-provisioner are enabled.

Let's start it.
minikube start

Running the dashboard command enables the dashboard addon, also this command locks and the url is a bit weird.
Once the dashboard command is stopped, the dashboard stop being available
minikube dashboard --url&
http://127.0.0.1:40215/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/http:kubernetes-dashboard:/proxy/

We can ssh into minikube
minikube ssh

And get the docker version
docker version

And the running containers
docker containers ls --no-trunc

We can see Kubernetes components in there, such as the dashboard, the storage provisioner, coredns, kube-scheduler, kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager, etc, and kube-proxy

And we can see the docker images too.

docker images

exit

We can get the ip of the cluster with 
minikube ip

We can see the minikube logs with
minikube logs

It dumps the logs of all the docker containers

In particular, I could see that the dashboard looks for the heapster service and does not find it, probably because this addon is disabled.

There's no obvious way to get the logs of a particular container.

The current profile is minikube
minikube profile

When using another profile, it changes.
minikube profile -p hello

The status should say that host, kubelet and apiserver are running ok.
minikube status

The ssh key can be located with
minikube ssh-key

There's a command to inject environment variables into the current session so that docker connects to the docker running within minikube
minikube docker-env
eval $(minikube docker-env)

The kubectl command actually downloads a version of kubectl so that manually downloading kubectl is actually not necessary.
Also it seems the version will match that of kubernetes.
kubectl version --short
minikube kubectl -- version --short

I didn't found what minikube cache do. There's a list command, but it is empty, and there's an add command to add images to the cache.

The configuration only shows that dashboard is true
minikube config view

There are many other parameters.

Service shows kubernetes, kube-dns and the dashboard
kubernetes service list

When asking for urls, I get nothing or it waits indefinitely.
minikube service -url kubernetes

To copy stuff from inside minikube to the outside world, mount can be useful
mkdir stuff
minikube mount stuff:/stuff&
minikube ssh
touch /stuff/something
exit
kill %1
ls stuff

minikube tunnel enables connecton directly to the pods
Todo: try that

Todo: investigate the addons

Todo: find more about these image things

To stop minikube
minikube stop

To delete the cluster
minikube delete

Todo: investigate minikube start options
